Welcome to my txt only website! 

Search for "How to use this website" (⌘-F on Mac and Ctrl+F on Windows) for 
tips and tricks as well as explanation on how this website works.

WRITING ON THE PHONE

16-08-2025

Lately, I've been trying to write more, and it has been going alright. At 
first, it was really hard, I was second guessing myself a lot and it all felt 
very messy. 
But slowly, my brain started to change. Now, as I go about my day, I have ideas 
that pop up into my mind, a sentence that fits very well with what I want to 
say or an example to explain some concept. 
In the beginning, I was trying to remember stuff, then I started writing it 
down in my notes app, but I feel like it's time I go one step further and start 
writing posts on my phone.

So I went on a little bit of a hunt to find a perfect setup. What I do is I 
sync the text file in iCloud Drive, symlink it to this website's public folder 
and edit it in an app called "Subtext"[^1].

If you also write things, I would be pleased to chat with you about methods for 
writing at hello@theoo.dev

- [^1] It's a free app that allows you to open and edit .txt files from any 
folder on your phone. It is really similar to textedit.

NOT WANTING TO DO ANYTHING

15-08-2025

Topics: Life

I'm on holiday, it's hot, too hot[^1] and I don't want to do anything.
So I'm forcing myself to write a little something on this blog while I wait for 
the time to go get dinner, Vegan Chineese takeout for those who like details. I 
don't know where this is gonna go, the rule for this page was that there is no 
minimum length per post, but so far I've been pretty generous on my word 
counts, so I might just talk about stuff for a while and see where this takes 
us.
Maybe a good subject would be this website. I'm starting to like it more and 
more, it has been freeing in a creative way to have a place to write down 
whatever I want without having to polish anything[^2], I just sit at my 
computer and write whatever goes through my mind.
This is also a great website for many other reasons, it is tiny[^3] so that 
means people don't have to download a lot of stuff to read what I have to say, 
it looks great, at least to me. I like the plain text vibe, I just wish there 
was some more line height and maybe a tiny bit more padding, but I can deal 
with this. It also is super low maintenance, plaintext is probably not gonna 
stop working any time soon, and I don't really have to update anything else 
appart from the content.

But the problem of this website is that it isn't accessible. All the content is 
inside a pre tag, this makes it so that screen readers have no clue what's 
going on, they will just read everything in the same way. No infos about lists, 
or dates, no quick skip link, no links for footnotes, no metadata to give 
context,... The plaintext, monospaced cramped aesthetic, which I find so cool, 
can also be a challenge to people with cognitive difficulties, the lack of 
visual queues and the monotony of it all can make it impossible for them to 
read comfortably. And I'm sure there are so many other things I'm not thinking 
about that make this website not accessible.

And I don't want it to be this way, especially since there is a simple and 
obvious solution, write the website using markdown and parse it as HTML before 
uploading it. That would require some refactoring and make the code even 
simpler (no more PHP, simply a HTML file being served directly).
But that would loose all the charm that using .txt files gives... There is 
something great about visiting a website and it simply being a text file, no 
tags, no style, that feels amazing to me. Even writing isn't the same. Because 
sure, I could write in markdown files and restrict myself to only write text, 
but that would just be frustrating. When I write in a .txt file, I can't make 
the choice to add images or links, they just don't exist. In a markdown file, 
they would be right there, looking at me like sirens, there would be so little 
reasons not to use them that it would be hard to avoid.
I'm afraid that transforming this website into a more accessible version would 
void it of it's soul, and of my willingness to write on it. Which in turn would 
mean that the website would not be accessible at all anymore since it would 
cease to exist.

Maybe I'm overthinking all this, I started this post not knowing what I was 
going to talk about and now I'm here. Maybe this is just a thing for me that 
other people can enjoy as a side effect, many great places exist that aren't 
accessible to everyone. Many cool art pieces can't work for everyone, and 
that's ok. But as much as it's ok, it is also sad, I wish everything was 
accessible to everyone, and I'm not sure I want my thing to be part of the not 
accessible ones. I know I couldn't ever please everyone, and as far as I know, 
I'm the only one reading these words, so I might be worrying for nothing.

Anyway, time to go get food, I'll come back here later to rant on some other 
thing.

- [^1] My heat tolerence is awful, above 27°C and I feel like crap.
- [^2] Not that I'm doing much of that on my main website, but still a little 
more than here.
- [^3] At least right now.

ED AND TAKING THE TIME

11-08-2025

Topics: Code, Editor, Thoughts

My favourite code editor is ed. For those who don't know, ed is one of the 
first editors to have been made, it's part of a class of editors called "line 
editors", which means that you are only editing complete lines of text. You can 
append after a line, insert before it or change a specific part using regexes, 
but you cannot put your cusor on a word and edit there. Ed doesn't even have a 
cursor.
Ed is naturally limiting, it can only do one thing, edit a file. No file 
searching, no scrolling, no infinite undo/redo, no diagnostics or code actions. 
If you want things like these, you have to do them in your terminal[^1]. If you 
make a typo while typing a line of code? You can't go back with your arrow keys 
to fix it, you need to validate the line with the typo and then correct it 
using a regex. (Or you could rewrite the whole line if that's what you fancy).
And these limitations happen because ed assumes you know what you are doing. 
You don't need to search for files if you know what you want to edit, you don't 
need ed to tell you you've misspelled a variable name, because you haven't 
misspelled it. And if you really aren't confident with yourself, you can use 
external programs to check after you, ed doesn't kow better than you, it can 
only edit text.

And for many reasons, I love these limitations. For one, ed is fast, it doesn't 
have a graphical interface, so of course it is quick to load a file. Also I 
love that ed forces me to be very sure of what I'm about to do, this forces me 
to think before I act and often produces cleaner code that I don't have to 
refactor later. Often using external cli programs to do things is faster than 
whatever implementation my regular editor would have. A great example is for 
finding a file, instead of using my editor's fuzzy finder, I can simply do a 
little `ed $(fzf)`, instead of waiting for diagnostics to refresh, I can run 
`php -l my-file.php` and find out exactly where that goddamn missing dollar 
sign is.
Ed forces you to learn your basic unix tools, and eventually you figure out how 
powerful they are, you become pro at man pages and old stack overflow threads. 
It also makes you learn a ton about regexes, which in my opinion are one of the 
most essential and the funniest parts of software development. And ed's regex 
engine isn't even featurefull, it lacks a ton of modern features like using 
`\U` to uppercase a group, but it forces you to get creative with your regexes. 
Which remember, you can't fail at writing, or you will have to rewrite them 
fully again and can only undo once.

But despite my love for this mighty editor, I can't really use it, at least not 
in my day to day work. Because for all it's beautiful quirks and complex 
simplicity, ed can never beat the speed of modern editors. Because, obviously 
it is faster to use a search input to find a function name project wide rather 
than manually use grep, obviously it is faster to fix a typo by clicking next 
to it and erasing it rather than writing a regex to fix it, obviously it's 
faster to use a code action to rename something rather than grep for all the 
places where it's used and manualy navigate to each one[^2].
And in our world, speed is the second thing that matters the most after money. 
I think that this is pretty sad, I wish our priorities weren't set on economic 
growth all the time but rather on human happiness growth. I wish it would be 
alright for me to go slower and use ed, that I wouldn't have to think about 
rentability and only think about doing good work that is also fun.
I'm afraid that us all as humans are heading in the wrong general direction, 
and none of us seem to know how to stop it. A lot of us don't want to stop what 
we are doing at all, it gave them a better life than most humans have had 
throughout history, and many other people are just not aware or their life is 
too complex to take the time to think about these things.
Time is our most valuable asset, and we are giving it away without the 
slightest thought. Giving it away to a job that allows us to eat and have a 
roof[^3], to social medias, television and other fun but unfulfilling 
activities, to going places in highly inneficient modes of public transport or 
in polluting and isolating cars. We should stop doing this[^4], try to live a 
more sensible life, a life where time and money aren't the two dominating 
forces.

[^1] - Which you can call inside of ed using the "!" operator.
[^2] - To be fair to ed there, if the occurences are in the same file, you can 
edit them all at once.
[^3] - It is crazy to me that things like these which are in the UDHR aren't 
being enforced on governments somehow. 
[^4] - Though I admittedly don't have any clue how.

ADULT SKILLS

10-08-2025

Topics: Life, Thoughts, Society

I have been considered an adult for a few years now, that's to say I've had my 
own place away from my mother's for a while. And I've noticed something, there 
is a certain amount of things you aren't taught in pre-adult life, well maybe 
you were but I wasn't and I know many other people who weren't.
Then at some point you become an adult to the world, and you eventually have to 
face these things. Generally, they aren't hard things, it's stuff like cleaning 
the shower drain, fixing a tripped circuit breaker, how long you can store food 
in the fridge, how to pay your taxes, should you drill in this wall or will you 
hit an electrical cable, how to get rid of stuff that doesn't fit in the 
trash,...
And for some reason, you have to figure these out on your own. Sure, you can 
maybe call your family or a friend, you have access to the internet and these 
days, you can even ask AI. But still, why was I never taught these things? Why 
aren't we taught, be it by our parents (at least mine) or by school, the stuff 
that will be useful in our actual life?
And I can't even say it's only something about nowadays society, when talking 
about it to older persons, the general concensus is that they also had to 
figure it out on their own.

Maybe it's something inherently human, we have always relied on other humans 
for help, therefore there was never really a need to teach such things, you 
could always ask someone.
 Which would also explain why the stuff we are taught in school isn't the 
useful one but the rest. I couldn't have asked my Mom or my neighbour to 
explain some weird Chemistry concept, they probably wouldn't have had a clue or 
just a rough idea. Because I don't really need a teacher to tell me how to 
clean my toilets in the correct way.
 Yet I can't help but shake the feeling that in a more and more isolated 
world[^1] we might not be able to rely on other people as much. Having to ask a 
neighbour for something is a hell of an effort, because I hardly know them, 
only from crossing in the hallways. Calling my family for help feels like a 
reach when I haven't seen them in months or barely for a couple hours [^2]. And 
sure there is internet and AI, and they have gotten me out of many situations 
before, but as useful as these tools are, it seems to me that they also are the 
primary cause of the lessening of human interactions.

 So what should we do as humans? Should we teach useful life things in school 
instead of the more work-life/make money stuff we are taught? Should we try to 
rebuild link with our family, friends and neighbourhood? Maybe live together 
for longer like they used to do? Take care of one another more? I'm not sure of 
any of these though I have a pretty positive opinion on most of them.
 Maybe I'm wrong as well, and figuring these things out by yourself is not as 
much of a big deal as I make it out to be. After all, none of these things has 
ever taken me more than a couple hours to figure out. I don't know what I 
really think of all of this, and there are many topics addressed in this text 
that I would like to revisit later, but I think that for now I'm gonna try to 
have a more sociable life and talk to other humans more and less to the 
computer.

 [^1] - At least that's how I feel in my life. More isolated than the people 
before me, partially by my own fault.
 [^2] - Mostly a me problem this one, but I feel that modern life leaves you 
with little time to spare for yourself, therefore even less for family. I guess 
this depends on your values and priorities though.

BROWSERS

09-08-2025

Topics: Browsers, Life

Since I was born in the early 2000s, I've been around browsers most of my life. 
The first one was Firefox, it was the one installed on the family computer and 
I didn't even know there were other browsers at the time, to be fair, there was 
no difference between the browser, the search engine and internet in my mind. 
Then I discovered Internet Explorer while trying to kill the time at my 
grandparents'. I would play random flash games and watch let's plays of Mario 
Kart Wii on Youtube.
At some point, Chrome replaced Firefox on the home computer which had since 
become a laptop, and would even replace my grandparents' trusty IE. For many 
years after that, all that existed was Chrome, maybe Safari for the odd times 
where I used a Mac at school or at some Aunt's place, but I knew no better.

Somehow along the path of my life, I ended up studying web development, and 
that's when the problems started. Because you see, before that, a browser was 
just a box with tabs that allowed me to access the internet, nothing more, 
nothing less. But then it became a tool, and a very important one as well, I 
wanted it to look good since I would spend most of my days there, but also to 
be fast and support many features. So at first I downloaded the three main 
browsers, to be able to test my websites properly, Firefox, Chrome and Safari, 
and I started to have preferences. Safari was the sleek good looking one, but 
so many websites would break when they encountered it and the dev tools sucked. 
Chrome was the web development beast, it didn't look too bad, its dev-tools 
were fantastic and it supported every feature under the sun, but it was run by 
Google... yuck. Firefox, was the ugly one, I hate how base Firefox looks, but 
at least Mozilla foundation felt less bad than Google or Apple and it supported 
most features with good enough dev-tools.
I was torn, constantly switching between the three for different tasks, never 
feeling at home anywhere and I wanted it to stop. So I started looking online 
for alternatives, and there were many.

That's when my browser frenzy got started, at some point I had 22 different 
browsers installed on my computer. There were the minimal ones like Min, the 
featureful ones like Vivaldi, Opera or Orion, the plethora of privacy focused 
forks, LibreWolf, Mullvad Browser, Waterfox, Ungoogled chromium, Brave, 
Throium,... a bunch of Vim inspired ones like Vieb or Qutebrowser. I even tried 
to use terminal based browsers like Lynx or w3m[^1] but quickly gave up on 
these.
I was never satisfied, always looking for a good balance between privacy, my 
love for the keyboard and good looks. And that's when a new name started to 
rise discreetly., Arc.

See, Arc definitely didn't tick the privacy nor the keyboard centric box, but 
it had such good looks[^2] that I couldn't keep looking away. I had it laying 
on my computer for about a year, using it on an off, never feeling quite at 
ease, but then it grew on me. At some point I had accepted that what mattered 
most to me was the way my browser looked[^3] and the ease with which I could 
use it to develop websites over the privacy aspect. And so I became a happy Arc 
user, there was little to complain about, after so many attempts and years of 
searching, I finally had found a browser that I would stick with in the long 
run.
But then "The Browser Company" decided to stop working on Arc, and that sucked. 
So like most I moved to Zen, and Zen is great. But a side effect of the Arc 
breakup is that it re-ignited my frenetic browser search. The novelty of Arc, 
with it's thursday updates had been able to keep my mind quiet, always having 
something new to try, but now I don't have this safeguard anymore.
So I went back to previous browsers I had really liked, Orion, LibreWolf and 
even Chrome... But the Arc way had poisoned my mind, not being able to open 
something in glance? No folders? No nice catchy animations absolutely 
everywhere? These had all become necessary things in my way of interacting with 
the internet.
Fortunately, Zen ticks most of these boxes, and it is also open source and more 
private. So I keep using it as my day to day browser while at the same time 
looking around for alternatives. The thing is, now that I'm not blinded by Arc 
anymore, I realized that I actually don't like the sidebar that much. It's 
alright, but I love the look of top tabs and the usability of them. And of 
course, Zen team has already said that they don't plan to support top tabs, 
ever.
"The Browser Company"'s new browser, Dia, could have been a great replacement, 
but even if it ever reaches feature parity with Arc, I still don't trust "The 
Browser Company" anymore and I hate the AI and the monetary aspect of it.

So here I am, stuck in this browser landscape, with so many choices but none 
that perfectly fits me. Maybe it's time for me to accept that nothing will ever 
be perfect, and to be at peace with using a browser that is more than good 
enough. To stop losing time switching and setting up different apps over and 
over again. I think that's a lesson for my life in general, stop wanting to 
always change things up, and be satisfied by whatever I have as long as it 
works.

[^1] — On which this webpage works really well btw.
[^2] — Debatable opinion, but as much as I dislike "The Browser Company", their 
designers do a pretty dang good job.
[^3] — Again, very debatable, I don't always feel comfortable with this opinion.

ALL TOPICS

- Browsers 
- Life
- Thoughts
- Society
- Code
- Editor

HOW TO USE THIS WEBSITE:

- You can search for stuff by using your computers default search (⌘-F on Mac 
and Ctrl+F on Windows).

- Each post is ordered from the most recent to the oldest. 

- Each post has at least one topic, you can find the list of all topics by 
searching for "All topics".

HOW DOES THIS WORK:

It is actually incrediby simple!
This website is a simple `.txt` file being rendered by your browser, because 
browsers can do that and it doesn't look too bad.
There is only a super thin layer of PHP used to serve the file at the `/` path 
and to tell the browser to use UTF-8 encoding to be able to render emojis and 
diacritics among others.

```
// index.php

<?php

header('Content-Type: text/plain; charset=utf-8');

readfile(__DIR__.'/content.txt');
exit;
```

There is also a tiny Makefile that is used for wraping the lines at 80ch which 
improves readability.
It uses the `fold` utility which is there by default on unix systems.

```
# Makefile

CONTENT = ./public/content.txt
BACKUP = ./content.txt.bak

wrap:
	cp $(CONTENT) $(BACKUP)
	TEMP=$$(mktemp) && \
	fold -s -w 80 $(CONTENT) > $$TEMP && \
	mv $$TEMP $(CONTENT)
```

You can find the source code on GitHub — https://github.com/theokbokki/txt

WHY DO THIS?

Because I like simple stuff. It is easy to make, easy to maintain, easy to use, 
weighs nothing, loads fast and it looks alright. 
What I want is a place to share my thoughts in writing, nothing more nothing 
less and this can easily achieve that.
I guess that not having images or links is a bit of a bummer, but I'm fine with 
this, I have another much more complete website for fancy stuff.

LEGAL:

No cookies, no tracking, do whatever you want with this as long as you don't 
deform what I say. If you have a problem with something on this website, you 
can contact me at hello@theoo.dev.
